Kube state core documentation (#10432)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/integrations/kubernetes_state_core.md

---
title: Kubernetes State Metrics Core
name: kubernetes_state_core
kind: integration
description: "Monitor the health of the workload running on your Kubernetes cluster. Track the status of your Kubernetes objects, correlate your microservice metrics, and more."
short_description: "Track the status of your Kubernetes objects, correlate your microservice metrics, and more."
categories:
    - cloud
    - configuration & deployment
    - containers
    - orchestration
doc_link: /integrations/kubernetes_state_core/
dependencies:
    ['https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/blob/master/content/en/integrations/kubernetes_state_core.md']
has_logo: true
integration_title: Kubernetes State Metrics Core
is_public: true
public_title: Datadog-Kubernetes State Metrics Core Integration
integration_id: "kubernetes_state_core"
---

## Overview

Get metrics from Kubernetes service in real time to:

- Visualize and monitor kubernetes states
- Be notified about kubernetes failovers and events.

> 

Reviewer: I think we should add a sentence here to explain how this is different than the Python check

Author: what major differences we want to highlight in the overview?  supporting ksm v2 for example?

Author: I added more details below about ksm v2 and the performance and tagging improvments

Reviewer: Great, maybe also add that this KSM Core check provides a better alternative to the legacy `kubernetes_state`? I think it's not super clear yet

## Setup

### Installation

The Kubernetes State Metrics Core check is included in the [Datadog Cluster Agent][1] image, so you don't need to install anything else on your Kubernetes servers.

### Requirements

- Datadog Cluster Agent v1.12+ 

### Configuration

We highly recommend using the Datadog Helm Chart to configure the Kubernetes State Metrics Core check.

In your Helm `values.yaml`, add the following:

```
...
datadog:
...
  kubeStateMetricsCore:
    enabled: true
...
```

**Note:** Enabling `kubeStateMetricsCore` in your Helm `values.yaml` will also configure the Agent to ignore the auto configuration file for legacy `kubernetes_state` check. The goal is to avoid running both checks simultaneously.

**Optional:** The Kubernetes State Metrics Core check does not require deploying `kube-state-metrics` in your cluster, you can optionally disable deploying `kube-state-metrics` as part of the Datadog Helm Chart. To do this, add the following in your Helm `values.yaml`:

```
...
datadog:
...

>   kubeStateMetricsEnabled: false

Reviewer: shouldn't we do the opposite? not deploy KSM when the core check is enabled, unless the user enables this?

Author: `kubeStateMetricsEnabled ` is enabled by default actually

Reviewer: Yes i think I didn't explain myself fully. The current defaults are good to me as well. To paraphrase, I think that we should make it more explicit on what happens if kubeStateMetricsCore is enabled:
1) Disabling the legacy `kubernetes_state` and ignoring it's auto configuration file (as well as the custom config if exists?)
2) `kube-state-metrics` will not be deployed via our chart?

Author: > Disabling the legacy kubernetes_state and ignoring it's auto configuration file (as well as the custom config if exists?)

yes, this is documented in the note just above. 

> kube-state-metrics will not be deployed via our chart?

This is not what I think we should do, here is why:
Since deploying ksm is enabled by default, we can't really judge whether it's enabled on purpose or not, so disabling it just because the core check is enabled is a tricky decision. A user can be interested in enabling both the core check and the python check at the same time during the migration phase, so forcing disabling the ksm deployment can be undesired. what we can do though is to print a helm note to tell the user they can (or should) disable `kubeStateMetricsEnabled` if `kubeStateMetricsCore` is enabled.

Nothing is decided yet though, happy to hear feedback on this!

Reviewer: This definitely makes sense to me. Thanks for sharing your thoughts!

---
title: Kubernetes State Metrics Core
name: kubernetes_state_core
kind: integration
description: "Monitor the health of the workload running on your Kubernetes cluster. Track the status of your Kubernetes objects, correlate your microservice metrics, and more."
short_description: "Track the status of your Kubernetes objects, correlate your microservice metrics, and more."
categories:
    - cloud
    - configuration & deployment
    - containers
    - orchestration
doc_link: /integrations/kubernetes_state_core/
dependencies:
    ['https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/blob/master/content/en/integrations/kubernetes_state_core.md']
has_logo: true
integration_title: Kubernetes State Metrics Core
is_public: true
public_title: Datadog-Kubernetes State Metrics Core Integration
integration_id: "kubernetes_state_core"
---

## Overview

> Get metrics from Kubernetes service in real time to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Get metrics from Kubernetes service in real-time to:
```

> - Visualize and monitor kubernetes states

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Visualize and monitor Kubernetes states.
```

> - Be notified about kubernetes failovers and events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Be notified about Kubernetes failovers and events.
```

> The Kubernetes State Metrics Core check leverages [kube-state-metrics version 2+][1] and includes major performance and tagging improvments compared to the legacy `kubernetes_state` check.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes State Metrics Core check leverages [kube-state-metrics version 2+][1] and includes major performance and tagging improvements compared to the legacy `kubernetes_state` check.
```

> As opposed to the legacy check, with the Kubernetes State Metrics Core check you will not need to deploy `kube-state-metrics` in your cluster anymore.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As opposed to the legacy check, with the Kubernetes State Metrics Core check, you no longer need to deploy `kube-state-metrics` in your cluster.
```

Kubernetes State Metrics Core provides a better alternative to the legacy `kubernetes_state` check as it offers more granular metrics and tags. See the [Major Changes][2] and [Data Collected][3] for more details.

## Setup

### Installation

The Kubernetes State Metrics Core check is included in the [Datadog Cluster Agent][4] image, so you don't need to install anything else on your Kubernetes servers.

### Requirements

- Datadog Cluster Agent v1.12+ 

### Configuration

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Helm" %}}

In your Helm `values.yaml`, add the following:

```
...
datadog:
...
  kubeStateMetricsCore:
    enabled: true
...
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Migration from kubernetes_state to kubernetes_state_core

### Backward incompatibility changes

> The Kubernetes State Metrics Core check is not backward compatible, please read the changes carefully before migrating from the legacy `kubernetes_state` check.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes State Metrics Core check is not backward compatible, be sure to read the changes carefully before migrating from the legacy `kubernetes_state` check.
```

`kubernetes_state.node.by_condition`
: A new metric with node name granularity. It replaces `kubernetes_state.nodes.by_condition`.

`kubernetes_state.persistentvolume.by_phase`
: A new metric with persistentvolume name granularity. It replaces `kubernetes_state.persistentvolumes.by_phase`.

`kubernetes_state.pod.status_phase`
: The metric is tagged with pod level tags now, like `pod_name`.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Helm" %}}

> Enabling `kubeStateMetricsCore` in your Helm `values.yaml` will also configure the Agent to ignore the auto configuration file for legacy `kubernetes_state` check. The goal is to avoid running both checks simultaneously.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enabling `kubeStateMetricsCore` in your Helm `values.yaml` configures the Agent to ignore the auto-configuration file for legacy `kubernetes_state` check. The goal is to avoid running both checks simultaneously.
```

> If you still want to enable both checks simultaneously for the migration phase, you can disable the `ignoreLegacyKSMCheck` field in your `values.yaml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you still want to enable both checks simultaneously for the migration phase, disable the `ignoreLegacyKSMCheck` field in your `values.yaml`.
```

Note that `ignoreLegacyKSMCheck` will make the Agent only ignore the auto configuration for the legacy `kubernetes_state` check. Custom `kubernetes_state` configurations need to be removed manually.

The Kubernetes State Metrics Core check does not require deploying `kube-state-metrics` in your cluster anymore, you can disable deploying `kube-state-metrics` as part of the Datadog Helm Chart. To do this, add the following in your Helm `values.yaml`:

```
...
datadog:
...
  kubeStateMetricsEnabled: false
...
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> **Important Note:** The Kubernetes State Metrics Core check is an alternative to the legacy `kubernetes_state` check, we highly recommand not enabling both checks simultaneously to guarantee consistent metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Important Note:** The Kubernetes State Metrics Core check is an alternative to the legacy `kubernetes_state` check. Datadog recommends not enabling both checks simultaneously to guarantee consistent metrics.
```

`kubernetes_state.deployment.replicas_unavailable`
: The number of unavailable replicas per deployment. Tags:`kube_deployment` `kube_namespace` (`env` `service` `version` from standard labels).

`kubernetes_state.deployment.replicas_updated`
: The number of updated replicas per deployment. Tags:`kube_deployment` `kube_namespace` (`env` `service` `version` from standard labels).

`kubernetes_state.deployment.condition`
: The current status conditions of a deployment. Tags:`kube_deployment` `kube_namespace` (`env` `service` `version` from standard labels).

`kubernetes_state.endpoint.address_available`
: Number of addresses available in endpoint. Tags:`endpoint` `kube_namespace`.

`kubernetes_state.endpoint.address_not_ready`
: Number of addresses not ready in endpoint. Tags:`endpoint` `kube_namespace`.

`kubernetes_state.namespace.count`
: Number of namespaces. Tags:`phase`.

`kubernetes_state.node.count`
: Information about a cluster node. Tags:`node` `kernel_version` `os_image` `container_runtime_version` `kubelet_version` `kubeproxy_version` `provider_id` `pod_cidr`.

`kubernetes_state.node.cpu_allocatable`

> : The allocatable cpu of a node that is available for scheduling. Tags:`node` `resource` `unit`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: The allocatable CPU of a node that is available for scheduling. Tags:`node` `resource` `unit`.
```

`kubernetes_state.node.memory_allocatable`
: The allocatable memory of a node that is available for scheduling. Tags:`node` `resource` `unit`.

`kubernetes_state.node.pods_allocatable`
: The allocatable memory of a node that is available for scheduling. Tags:`node` `resource` `unit`.

`kubernetes_state.node.cpu_capacity`

> : The cpu capacity of a node. Tags:`node` `resource` `unit`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: The CPU capacity of a node. Tags:`node` `resource` `unit`.
```

`kubernetes_state.node.memory_capacity`
: The memory capacity of a node. Tags:`node` `resource` `unit`.

`kubernetes_state.node.pods_capacity`
: The pods capacity of a node. Tags:`node` `resource` `unit`.

`kubernetes_state.node.by_condition`
: The condition of a cluster node. Tags:`condition` `node` `status`.

`kubernetes_state.node.status`
: Whether the node can schedule new pods. Tags:`node` `status`.

`kubernetes_state.node.age`
: The time in seconds since the creation of the node. Tags:`node`.

`kubernetes_state.container.terminated`
: Describes whether the container is currently in terminated state. Tags:`kube_namespace` `pod_name` `kube_container_name` (`env` `service` `version` from standard labels).

`kubernetes_state.container.cpu_limit`

> : The value of cpu limit by a container. Tags:`kube_namespace` `pod_name` `kube_container_name` `node` `resource` `unit` (`env` `service` `version` from standard labels).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: The value of CPU limit by a container. Tags:`kube_namespace` `pod_name` `kube_container_name` `node` `resource` `unit` (`env` `service` `version` from standard labels).
```

`kubernetes_state.container.memory_limit`
: The value of memory limit by a container. Tags:`kube_namespace` `pod_name` `kube_container_name` `node` `resource` `unit` (`env` `service` `version` from standard labels).

`kubernetes_state.container.cpu_requested`

> : The value of cpu requested by a container. Tags:`kube_namespace` `pod_name` `kube_container_name` `node` `resource` `unit` (`env` `service` `version` from standard labels).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: The value of CPU requested by a container. Tags:`kube_namespace` `pod_name` `kube_container_name` `node` `resource` `unit` (`env` `service` `version` from standard labels).
```

---

## Overview

Get metrics from Kubernetes service in real time to:

- Visualize and monitor kubernetes states
- Be notified about kubernetes failovers and events.

The Kubernetes State Metrics Core check leverages [kube-state-metrics version 2+][1] and includes major performance and tagging improvments compared to the legacy `kubernetes_state` check.

As opposed to the legacy check, with the Kubernetes State Metrics Core check you will not need to deploy `kube-state-metrics` in your cluster anymore.

Kubernetes State Metrics Core provides a better alternative to the legacy `kubernetes_state` check as it offers more granular metrics and tags. See the [Major Changes][2] and [Data Collected][3] for more details.

## Setup

### Installation

The Kubernetes State Metrics Core check is included in the [Datadog Cluster Agent][4] image, so you don't need to install anything else on your Kubernetes servers.

### Requirements

- Datadog Cluster Agent v1.12+ 

### Configuration

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Helm" %}}

In your Helm `values.yaml`, add the following:

```
...
datadog:
...
  kubeStateMetricsCore:
    enabled: true
...
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ## Migration from kubernetes_state to kubernetes_state_core

Reviewer: This is great, can we move this section to be the one before Data Collected?

> ### Major Changes

Reviewer: Let's change to "Backward incompatibility changes"

The Kubernetes State Metrics Core check is not backward compatible, please read the changes carefully before migrating from the legacy `kubernetes_state` check.

`kubernetes_state.node.by_condition`
: A new metric with node name granularity. It replaces `kubernetes_state.nodes.by_condition`.

`kubernetes_state.persistentvolume.by_phase`
: A new metric with persistentvolume name granularity. It replaces `kubernetes_state.persistentvolumes.by_phase`.

`kubernetes_state.pod.status_phase`
: The metric is tagged with pod level tags now, like `pod_name`.

> 

Reviewer: What about additional metrics that we have in the spreadsheet? like container.resource_limits that replaces container.cpu_limit & container.memory_limit?

Author: these have been fixed as well to align with the previous check naming, no issues 👍  (sorry the spreadsheet is a bit outdated, the metric list below should be used as source of truth)
